.ds q \N'34'
.TH compton 1

.SH NAME
compton \- a compositor for X11

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B compton
[\-d display] [\-r radius] [\-o opacity] [\-l left\-offset]
[\-t top\-offset] [\-i opacity] [\-e opacity] [\-cCfFSdG]
[\-\-config path] [\-\-shadow\-red value]
[\-\-shadow\-green value] [\-\-shadow\-blue value]
[\-\-inactive\-opacity\-override] [\-\-inactive\-dim value]
[\-\-mark\-wmwin\-focused] [\-\-shadow\-exclude condition]
[\-\-mark\-ovredir\-focused] [\-\-no\-fading\-openclose]
[\-\-shadow\-ignore\-shaped] [\-\-detect\-round\-corners]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B compton
is a compositor based on Dana Jansens' version of xcompmgr (which itself was
written by Keith Packard). It includes many improvements over the original
xcompmgr, including window frame opacity, inactive window transparency,
and shadows on argb windows.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d\ display
Which display should be managed.
.TP
.BI \-r\ radius
The blur radius for shadows. (default 12)
.TP
.BI \-o\ opacity
The translucency for shadows. (default .75)
.TP
.BI \-l\ left-offset
The left offset for shadows. (default -15)
.TP
.BI \-t\ top-offset
The top offset for shadows. (default -15)
.TP
.BI \-I\ fade-in-step
Opacity change between steps while fading in. (default 0.028)
.TP
.BI \-O\ fade-out-step
Opacity change between steps while fading out. (default 0.03)
.TP
.BI \-D\ fade-delta-time
The time between steps in a fade in milliseconds. (default 10)
.TP
.BI \-m\ opacity
The opacity for menus. (default 1.0)
.TP
.BI \-c
Enabled client-side shadows on windows.
.TP
.BI \-C
Avoid drawing shadows on dock/panel windows.
.TP
.BI \-z
Zero the part of the shadow's mask behind the window (experimental).
.TP
.BI \-f
Fade windows in/out when opening/closing and when opacity
changes, unless --no-fading-openclose is used.
.TP
.BI \-F
Equals -f. Deprecated.
.TP
.BI \-i\ opacity
Opacity of inactive windows. (0.1 - 1.0)
.TP
.BI \-e\ opacity
Opacity of window titlebars and borders. (0.1 - 1.0)
.TP
.BI \-G
Don't draw shadows on DND windows
.TP
.BI \-b
Daemonize process.
.TP
.BI \-S
Enable synchronous operation (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \--config\ path
Look for configuration file at the path.
.TP
.BI \--shadow-red\ value
Red color value of shadow (0.0 - 1.0, defaults to 0).
.TP
.BI \--shadow-green\ value
Green color value of shadow (0.0 - 1.0, defaults to 0).
.TP
.BI \--shadow-blue\ value
Blue color value of shadow (0.0 - 1.0, defaults to 0).
.TP
.BI \--inactive-opacity-override
Inactive opacity set by -i overrides value of _NET_WM_OPACITY.
.TP
.BI \--inactive-dim\ value
Dim inactive windows. (0.0 - 1.0, defaults to 0)
.TP
.BI \--mark-wmwin-focused
Try to detect WM windows and mark them as active.
.TP
.BI \--shadow-exclude\ condition
Exclude conditions for shadows.
.TP
.BI \--mark-ovredir-focused
Mark over-redirect windows as active.
.TP
.BI \--no-fading-openclose
Do not fade on window open/close.
.TP
.BI \--shadow-ignore-shaped
Do not paint shadows on shaped windows.
.TP
.BI \--detect-rounded-corners
Try to detect windows with rounded corners and don't consider
them shaped windows.
.TP
.BI Format\ of\ a\ condition:

condition = <target>:<type>[<flags>]:<pattern>

<target> is one of "n" (window name), "i" (window class
instance), and "g" (window general class)

<type> is one of "e" (exact match), "a" (match anywhere),
"s" (match from start), "w" (wildcard), and "p" (PCRE
regular expressions, if compiled with the support).

<flags> could be a series of flags. Currently the only defined
flag is "i" (ignore case).

<pattern> is the actual pattern string.

.SH BUGS
Please report any you find to https://github.com/chjj/compton.

.SH AUTHORS
xcompmgr, originally written by Keith Packard, with contributions from
Matthew Allum, Eric Anholt, Dan Doel, Thomas Luebking, Matthew Hawn,
Ely Levy, Phil Blundell, and Carl Worth.
Compton by Christopher Jeffrey, based on Dana Jansens' original work,
with numerous contributions from Richard Grenville.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR compton-trans (1)
