.ds q \N'34'
.TH compton\-trans 1

.SH NAME
compton\-trans \- an opacity setter tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B compton-trans [-wncs] [window] opacity
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B compton-trans
is a bash script that sets _NET_WM_WINDOW_OPACITY only using standard
command-line utilities for X11, including xprop(1) and xwininfo(1).
It is similar to other utilities like transset(1) or transset-df(1).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w,\ \-window,\ \-\-window\ \fIwindow\-id\fP
Specify the window id to target.
.TP
.BI \-n,\ \-name,\ \-\-name\ \fIwindow\-name\fP
Specify and try to match a window name.
.TP
.BI \-c,\ \-current,\ \-\-current
Specify the current window as a target.
.TP
.BI \-s,\ \-select,\ \-\-select
Select target window with mouse cursor.
This is the default if no window has been specified.
.TP
.BI \-o,\ \-opacity,\ \-\-opacity\ \fIopacity\fP
Specify the new opacity value for the window. This value
can be anywhere from 1-100. If it is prefixed with a plus
or minus (+/-), this will increment or decrement from the
target window's current opacity instead.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Set window id to opacity of 75%.
compton-trans -w "$WINDOWID" 75
.TP
Set window name, "urxvt", to opacity of 75%.
compton-trans -n "urxvt" 75
.TP
Set current window to opacity of 75%.
compton-trans -c 75
.TP
Select target window and set opacity to 75%.
compton-trans 75
.TP
Increment current window 5% opacity.
compton-trans -c +5
.TP
Remove opacity property of current window.
compton-trans -c none

.SH BUGS
Please report any you find to https://github.com/chjj/compton.

.SH AUTHORS
Christopher Jeffrey (https://github.com/chjj)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR compton(1),
.BR xprop(1),
.BR xwininfo(1)
